Hello!changing seasonsI’ve realized that a perpetual topic in this newsletter is me complaining/talking about the weather. I think that’s because:weather is hard to predictmy spirits follow the changing weather quite closelyWhen it’s sunny and light out until 8:30PM, I love Victoria. I can finish work, go outside, and bask under the bright blue sky. Then I can return home for a snack or dinner and go out again to see the sunset. Wonderful.I’ve noticed that April in particular encompasses a drastic change in daylight hours. Here’s a chart showing the change in daylight hours:You’ll notice that the month of April is when the blue line (hours of daylight) is at its steepest; hence the noticeable increase. I love it.trucksAnyone who knows me knows that I own a 2008 Honda Civic. It’s a manual that I bought in the summer of 2019 to zip around town.Recently, I got the idea in my head that I wanted to replace the Civic with something more adventurous.Here’s my reasoning: different modes of transportation allow for different levels of autonomy.Generally, you can get more places in a car than on a bike. The same goes for biking versus walking. And within these levels, there are levels. Walking in flip flops versus running shoes. A tricycle versus a mountain bike. A car versus a truck.Disclaimer: I’m still figuring out how this truck-buying fiasco recons with my less-carbon, smaller environmental impact ambition. This is not an argument to buy a bigger car. In fact, not owning a car at all is admirable: divesting from car-centric culture, not producing carbon, etc.Anyways…Am I a truck guy? I'm not sure. I'd like to think I'm an adventure guy.I like the idea of being able to move big things easily. The ability to drive up logging roads confidently. There’s so much potential for what I could do in the truck. And, if there’s room to sleep, it allows for a road trip.road tripI’ve become enamoured with the idea of a road trip, mostly because of this youtube video. But also because walking onto a metal tube (airplane) for five hours and walking out somewhere completely different is a bit strange.I like witnessing the gradual change of climate and geography and people over the course of a road trip. It feels like enjoying the journey instead of just the destination. And a truck makes this a bit more of a possibility.however!The more I test drive trucks (4Runners), the more I realized how much I love the Civic. I love that it fits in any parking space. I love that it feels agile. It hasn’t broken! It is a joy to drive. And so I’m stuck.🎵You don’t know what you’ve got till it’s gone🎵travelsI traveled for two weeks this month, first to Montreal then Kingston. It’s so nice seeing family and friends! But it’s tough breaking the routine!I’m proud that I didn’t get sick or lose anything over the course of my travels.endA few items to end this newsletter:new Starbucks order - iced oat chai latte w/ cinnamon dolce syrupThis Jerry Seinfeld videoThis songKahuna in Victoria has a delicious coconut cream pieI watched This Place Rules; it was both hilarious and insightfulI was staying in a hotel in Dorval and the blinds looked like this. Can anyone explain this pattern?See you next month!
