Hallo.This month, I took a week off and travelled to Vienna to see Coldplay with Maya and Satish. I also turned 26.vienna huhColdplay was awesome. I learned that Chris Martin’s favourite Taylor Swift song is the 1. They also played Fix You and I cried.Ernst-Happel-StadionWhat I didn’t expect was how much I liked Vienna. Here are various thoughts I had while over there:“Wow, this [airport, escalator, outlet, park bench, etc] is nice”“Why does everyone speak better English than me?”“They serve beer here?!”“I can’t believe Hitler got rejected from this art school.”“This schnitzel is distinctly average.”“Why do I have to pay to use the public washroom?”HochstrahlbrunnenI also put together a pros and cons list:prosit’s mostly clean everywheremost bathrooms have an “in use” indicator and a satisfying deadbolt‘In Use’ indicatorno one is sleeping on the streetsthey follow rulespeople don’t jaywalkeveryone is generally calm and quietthey LOVE beer. It’s unbelievably easy to grab a drink anywhere.there's wifi everywhere (at least in the city)conspaying for water at restaurants!?some areas are super touristy (but European tourists)the bottle caps don’t come offketchup tastes worse (less sugar)people generally don’t engage in niceties or pleasantriesthey don’t say “sorry” or “excuse me”activitiesHere are some activities I’d recommend if you’re going to Vienna:Go to Prater Park. It’s beautiful in the evening.the PraterGo to the attached festival/carnival.Walk around the museum district.slideshowHere’s a TikTok slideshow from our trip!TikTok · Kahvi Patelvienna/europe reflectionHave I entered an alternate reality where the government cares more about trains than the military?What surprised me is how convenient it all felt. Things made sense. Stuff works the way you expect it to. Mostly everything was intuitive.Ex 1: I had to go to the bathroom after the Coldplay concert and there was no line. 50,000 people and I just walked in! (a testament to their stadium infrastructure).Ex 2: I flew back out of Munich and went through their airport security. It was incredible. Just put everything in the bin and walk through. No separate liquids or laptop. It was quiet, no one rushing, but efficient.lounging around at scaleThey are so good at loitering (in a positive way).The Viennese know how to enjoy themselves — this goes along with the loving beer point.Everywhere you look, people are sitting, chatting, drinking, eating. It feels like an entire city optimized for that purpose.The servers don’t rush you at restaurants or cafes. The city has parks with benches. The streets have wide sidewalks and places to chat. And it’s incredibly easy to get to and from all these places using public transit.All of it makes you want to sit down and vibe.returningComing back home, I was left feeling impressed. And maybe a little depressed.Why can’t Canada be this way?→ Well, because Canada isn’t that old. We’re a young country — relatively. And it takes a while to set up all that infrastructure.→But didn’t Europe have a war!? Didn’t they have to rebuild everything from scratch!?Well, I never took a European history course in university (clearly). So I’m reading this book to give me some clarity on post-war Europe and how they developed to this point.turning 26a delicious coconut cakeTwenty-six, the age, feels irrelevant. Twenty-eight will be when I start panicking. An age where starting things means finishing them in your thirties. That’s intimidating. Scary.Things to do before 27:drive to Mexicoget a dog (?)save six figuresdo a muscle upbackflip on grass50 consecutive push-ups30s handstandplay piano in front of people30hrs volunteeringsail to Nanaimo for overnightor Salt Spring, Pender, Galiano, etcdo 5040 hikeother fun stuffWorking out doesn't help you to lose weight?source - KurzgesagtThis post help put international calibre runners in perspective. 1km in 2:37!?!?We changed a flat tire for the first timeI read this great MDN guide on Javascript Moduleswent on a river float!did a bike scavenger hunt!I finished The House of Kennedy. It’s tragic, but an interesting journey through that era of American history.endSee you next month!
