Hello! this was my december:Xmas breakIt’s been a break about nose-breathing.After reading the first few chapters of this book (that I did not finish) and absorbing its propaganda, I’m intent on spending less time breathing through my mouth.The convincing parts weren’t the medical studies referenced (sort of because the author isn’t a doctor and it felt a bit preachy).What resonated with me was the history of breath. The practice of inhaling and exhaling deeply and slowly is eerily universal. It comes up in eastern meditation, Christian prayer, aboriginal tribes, even the Navy SEALs do some version of it. About 6 seconds in and 6 seconds out. All through the nose.I’m not sure if this is actually making me healthier, but it does make me feel better. And I’ll settle for the placebo.BooksI did read these books (completely):how not to die alonecandy housethe little prince^ I’ve posted about all three on my blog.ResolutionsLooking back at my 2022 resolutions, I can recap progress on a few:I want to move to Montreal.I haven’t moved yet and I’m very indecisive about it.I'd like to start posting more on my Instagram Story.Sort of did this. About 70 stories posted in 2022 compared to 45 in 2021.I want to get a fun phone case. And tattoos, more jewelry, etc.I don’t have a fun case. It’s still naked except for a screen protector 😬.No new tattoos. That is something I need to sit down and think about.I have more jewelry! A couple chains and a bracelet!I want to get a promotion at work.Did this :)I want to run a marathon.I ran a half-marathon in September! And I was quite happy with my time. I don’t want to run a full marathon anytime soon (that sounds terrifying). I’d rather work on improving my half time.I want to get LASIK.Did this! It works! Here’s a selfie with the surgeon!You’ll notice the nurse on the right was not pleased.I want to read 23 books in 2022.I didn’t do this one, the total is 17 books this year. I attribute the decrease to this book taking so mfin long to get through.I would like to be able to do a standing front flip.Not yet. Not that I’ve practiced (at all). Will do it this year though, I want to spend some time at the trampoline park in Victoria.Some picsThe sweetest dog in the worldThe sibling christmas picThe aftermath of an insane axe throwadorning a Turkish towel™Some linksA thing I wrote in rust over the breaktips about file namingthis puzzle pagethis football matchinfo on canada’s age demographicssee you next month 🫡kahvi
