Hello!Well, about a year after this whole thing started, I’ve received word back from McGill Law School. If you missed that part, I started studying for the LSAT in May of 2023 and submitted my application in November. At the beginning of this month, I got an email:I’d like to reflect on this.the applicationI think it’s important that I enjoyed the process. It doesn’t feel like time wasted, despite the rejection.The LSAT is a genuinely interesting test. Especially the logic games. I was surprised at how much I enjoyed studying for it. That’s probably what made me think about applying in the first place.I’m glad I had the capacity to take the test while working full-time and I’m pleased with how I did.The personal statement was tougher. I don’t like when my writing feels too serious or emotional. Unfortunately, in this case, that’s kind of the point. Even now, it’s hard for me to re-read my personal statement. But it was a step in the right direction and I’m a better writer for it.rejection feelingsI feel disappointed. Opening that email and reading it was jarring. Despite the lengthy wait, part of me still believed I’d get in. Or at least get waitlisted.Oh well! Water under the bridge.rejection is redirectionThe rejected application is something to learn from.After looking at myself on paper, all I offered as evidence of my competency was my career.Given that, the admissions committee might’ve thought my goal was to become a lawyer for Shopify. And that’s definitely not the case.My motivation to go to law school is more idealistic and certainly less practical. It’s rooted in the desire to change things for the better in my community. Like the feeling of Obama's 2008 campaign — HOPE, Yes We Can!, etc. So how I can strive towards those goals without law school? Well, volunteer.Since moving to Victoria, I’ve done close to nothing. In university, I volunteered for the Engineering Students Society and that was five years ago.This rejection feels like a signal to get more involved.what's nextAside from that, I think I’d like to apply again (to more than one school). I believe that a more focused effort and wider net will turn out a better result.At the end of the day, I want to choose whether I go to law school, not the admissions committee. sailing againI spent the entire month of July in Victoria — no traveling — which hasn’t happened in a while. I signed up for sailing lessons. I did this last year on a dinghy (13 ft long):This time, I was on a keelboat (24.2 ft long). The nice thing about a keelboat is that it’s physically impossible to capsize due to wind. At least that’s what they told me. The same cannot be said about a dinghy.It's funny — when I first started, the more I sailed, the more I wanted to race to prove my skill. But after being out once in 15 knot winds, I immediately don’t want to do that. The ocean is serious business. I read the Shackleton book and this quote comes to mind:The sea is a different sort of enemy. Unlike the land, where courage and the simple will to endure can often see a man through, the struggle against the sea is an act of physical combat, and there is no escape. It is a battle against a tireless enemy in which man never actually wins; the most that he can hope for is not to be defeated.This has not diminished my obsession with sailing though. If you’re in Victoria and want to sail casually in <15 knots winds, let me know!miscIt was Ashley’s birthday this month! We’re now the same age for about a month and a half. Love you Ash. See you soon xoxo.I read a book about the importance of your twenties this month. It was fascinating! My thoughts are here.This Carl Sagan quote from the 70s:Anything else you’re interested in is not going to happen if you can’t breathe the air and drink the water.I got to see fireworks twice this month. Once on Canada Day and once outside of Butchart Gardens. Man I love fireworks.That’s it! Until next month!
