As the LSAT continues to take a toll on my mental health, here's what I managed to recollect from June.campingWe went camping this month at French Beach and got heavily rained on the first night. The rest of our time was better!travellingWe (me and my girlfriend Ashley) travelled through Vancouver then Kingston this month. Here’s Van/Tsawwassen:And Kingstonwhere Ashley got to meet the best dog in the entire world (and my brother)And then we went tomontreal!We stayed in Plateau for  ~5 days and got rained on again (but it’s wasn’t that bad).I ate the best pastry I’ve ever had at this lovely bakery.And we did a bunch of other stuff:thriftingeatingclimbing up mt royalbixi bikingstudyingspeaking french (badly)shoppingmontreal vs victoriaIt felt natural to compare our two cities so Ashley wrote about it:People talk about Montreal and Victoria in terms of abundance. Montreal has SO much culture and Victoria has SO much nature. After much reflection trying to articulate what defines these two great cities - here’s what I’ve got:Nature vs. Culture If all man-made elements were removed from Victoria, the land would still be defined by the beautiful west coast environment (ocean, mountains, etc). In contrast, Montreal's essence is deeply intertwined with its curated culture, shaped by the people who inhabit the city. People travel to the west coast to feel more connected to the earth and inner reflection, and after two decades of enough built-up-earthly-inner-reflection to make Gwyneth Paltrow Goop herself, I was eager to experience something outside of myself and the great outdoors.Law vs. Looseness Victoria has a deep respect of rules and regulations, which helps maintain the city’s pristine order, while Montreal has a looser approach to authority. If the cities were two aunts, Victoria would kindly yet passive-aggressively advise you really shouldn’t be doing what you’re doing because its inconveniencing everyone, and Montreal would cheekily whisper in your ear that you can drink in the public park as long as you bring some food ;)Gear vs. Weird The gear gloating is very real on the west coast, and sporting the latest Lulu or Patagonia makes you feel like part of the club. The first rule of Montreal fashion club? Throw out the rules, get on your BIXI bike, get 3 piercings, grab something crochet or neon from the nearest thrift shop, and do it in French. Honestly the fashion was one of my favourite parts of the trip and while you might not see me sporting a new neon nose ring anytime soon, I definitely left with some newfound inspiration. My final impression: Very cool city. Would move (pending winter visit).^ I agreeHere are my Montreal pros and cons:pros:you can drink in the parksthere are many parkseverything👏stays👏open👏past👏8pmppl bike everywhereppl are youngerppl are weirdercons:all the hand sanitizing stations were empty?the winter is atrociously coldquiz time!As is now tradition, here is another LSAT question:The number of calories in a gram of refined cane sugar is the same as in an equal amount of fructose, the natural sugar found in fruits and vegetables. Therefore, a piece of candy made with a given amount of refined cane sugar is no higher in calories than a piece of fruit that contains an equal amount of fructose.The reasoning in the argument is flawed because the argumentA. fails to consider the possibility that fruit might contain noncaloric nutrients that candy does not contain B. presupposes that all candy is made with similar amounts of sugar C. confuses one kind of sugar with another D. presupposes what it sets out to establish, that fruit does not differ from sugar-based candy in the number of calories each contains E. overlooks the possibility that sugar might not be the only calorie-containing ingredient in candy or fruitAnd another:City councilperson: Many city residents oppose the city art commission’s proposed purchase of an unusual stone edifice, on the grounds that art critics are divided over whether the edifice really qualifies as art. But I argue that the purpose of art is to cause experts to debate ideas, including ideas about what constitutes art itself. Since the edifice has caused experts to debate what constitutes art itself, it does qualify as art.Which one of the following, if assumed, enables the conclusion of the city councilperson’s argument to be properly inferred?A. Nothing qualifies as art unless it causes debate among experts.B. If an object causes debate among experts, no expert can be certain whether that object qualifies as art.C. The purchase of an object that fulfills the purpose of art should not be opposed.D. Any object that fulfills the purpose of art qualifies as art.E. The city art commission should purchase the edifice if it qualifies as art.more picsi said goodbye to my team at work this month! I’m switching to another onea cute boat in KingstonGot to setup my hammock in beacon hill parka nice picture Ashley tookI got bitten by a dog while on a run this month.last one I’ll leave you withSee you next month!KahviP.S. answers to the LSAT questions are E and D in that order.
