hello!These newsletters have been quite wordy lately. Originally, this format was meant to be flexible and accommodating, but I’ve regressed to only words. As it happens, I didn’t get the chance to write much down this month. Too much sun and not enough thinking I guess. However, June was a great month for photos. So instead of talking a bunch, this newsletter will be mostly photos and some sentences to accompany.backflipBut first, I’d like to publicly announce that I’ve completed my long-standing resolution* to do a standing backflip:https://youtube.com/shorts/sebdejOwvFc?si=yMm5YTrWLBLQMYLiIt took about four months of semi-consistent practice. I quite enjoyed the process and will continue to work to make my landing look prettier.picsWe went camping at Coombs country campground for two nights! It was nice to be out of town.The next weekend, I visited Galiano island. Spent some time climbing ropes and swinging from trees.The next week, it was the longest day of the year and we went for frigid sunrise swim.I left for Toronto the same day and went to the Toronto Symphony! In shorts! This is what the worst seats in the house look like:Here’s my review of the concert:Hisaishi Conducts HisaishiYou gotta eat your vegetables for this one“Metaphysica”1- Very postmodern. Everything is deconstructed but especially the percussion. It’s off on purpose? Or I’m too dumb to understand the tempo. At the same time, it’s very precise, especially with the snare. It has to be, because there’s so much crazy shit going on.2- More flowy, a melody/phrase that gets deconstructed. Reminiscent of modulation pitch and frequency on a synthesizer. I could notice the same order of notes resurfacing.No applause break. Heard two claps in the pause then they started back up again.3- He's certainly using all the musicians. Even if they are playing out of sync. A lot of dissonance - not great tbhTo me, metaphysica is not supposed to be structured or linear or cohesive. It’s meant to test the boundaries of the medium first, and producing an enjoyable tune second.Not a bad thing to explore that way. I’d just rather not sit through it!!!La valse1- A waltz! Not quite normal obviously but something close to it. Was not dissonant!! I liked it!“Spirited Away” Suite😮. Floored.The encore almost brought tears to my eyes! Moist eyes at least. But I actually wasn’t in Toronto to watch the Symphony. I was there for Shopify Summit. It was a blast!And here are various other pretty moments from June:endOverall, I enjoyed June. Thanks for reading!  See you next month!
