Hello!First, some housekeeping → For a while, attempts to subscribe to this newsletter would result in nothing happening. Clicking the subscribe button simply would not work. Luckily, after a long and annoying email thread with Substack support, it’s working again. Woo!!transcendental meditationI went on a Jerry Seinfeld binge this month. It started because of his press tour for his new movie.My rabbit-hole went something like this:10 Things Jerry Seinfeld Can't Live Without | GQJerry Seinfeld | Duke's 2024 Commencement Address (I actually like this video)Jerry Seinfeld on stoicism and 3 keys to a successful lifeJerry Seinfeld talks Transcendental Meditation at David Lynch Foundation GalaI ended up learning that Jerry (as well as several other famous people) do something called Transcendental Meditation (TM). And being the gullible person I am, I became convinced that I should try it out.My decision was made under the assumption that these two things were true:TM contributed directly to Jerry’s successJerry isn’t trying to sell me anythingI won’t try to defend these assumptions here.Anyway, I found this website and I booked a free introductory session. Here’s what I can tell you:They mean well!They use a helpful ocean analogy for meditationThe science mostly backs what they claimThere are some culty ritualsIt costs $1,400Unfortunately, that last point really threw me off. You’re essentially paying 1400 dollars for a “mantra word” and 8 hours of lessons. To me, not worth it.…On the other hand, the studies have convincing results. Decreases in anxiety, hypertension, even the US military has spent money on it!On the other other hand, even if the technique is effective, that's still no reason to spend upwards of 1000 dollars. It's gotta be on the internet somewhere, right?!my career, so farI’ve been thinking about my work trajectory.A bit of history: I initially went to university for philosophy. After my first year, I changed my mind and moved across the country to study engineering. I eventually chose to specialize in software engineering and then switched to computer science.During the winter semester of my fourth year, I applied for an internship at Shopify and got it.At the end of my internship, they offered me a full time position. I took it, did one summer semester, and graduated in August.After graduating, I had a month’s respite before starting my job in September 2021. I spent that time moving into a new apartment, preparing for the job, and dealing with the onset of the pandemic.Since then, I’ve been working. That was two years and ten months ago.A few times a year, over Christmas or on vacation, I take a couple of weeks off. During that time, I get out of the habit of working and I can distance myself from my day to day. As a result, I get a view of the bigger picture.It seems like the longer I spend away, the better vantage point I have. And I think it’s important to have that perspective. Leaving the matrix for a second.Disclaimer: I realize that taking a break from work for some “perspective” fits neatly into the “lazy millennial” stereotype. But I'm grateful for my job! I get to do work I’m interested in, it supports my lifestyle and I appreciate that.I feel like both can be true. I can like my job and still want an outside view. I want a better idea of who I am without my job.This saga will continue!random thingsAshley and I took a lovely salsa class this month. Salsa music feels like the sun.I bought my first pair of linen pants.My backflip is progressing (I think).I saw the northern lights!endAnd that’s all I got. See you next month!Subscribe
