Hey! Is life just about planning things and then doing them?mexicoIn an annual effort to escape the god-awful dreariness of Victoria, I was in Mexico for most of November.This trip convinced me that the best way to travel is to stay as close as possible to a park. We stayed next to Plaza Río de Janeiro in Colonia Roma. It was lovely. My favourite food was at Taqueria Orinoco and Taquería Álvaro Obregón. Here’s a little video of the trip!The one downside was a lack of running water for about 24 hours (Mexico City is having water issues). Those were hard hours.spanishOn a related note, I want to learn how to speak Spanish.It’s become clear to me that to maximize my experience in Mexico, I need to speak and understand the language. So far my knowledge is quite limited. I did start watching Spanish tv with the subtitles on. It’s quite helpful for getting used to the tone and cadence. I can recommend Elite, it feels like Riverdale but things are slightly less unhinged.I kept a note of common phrases because I left my Spanish phrasebook on the plane:Aside from the practical merits, I enjoy the tone and cadence of Spanish. It sounds smooth and soft and flowy. English is more jagged and sharp. I want to sink into that other tone more.bookLately, I’ve been staying up too late. I’m not sure why (probably the salsa classics ringing in my head from Mexico). Usually, reading a good book helps me fall asleep.I don’t have a book I’m eager to read at the moment. There’s about eight non-fiction books I’m trying to read but they are all too boring.This is a plea for help.I am in need of a fiction book recommendation. Preferably something spacey involving aliens or politics. My favourites of this genre include:The Three-Body ProblemA Memory Called EmpireDuneChildren of TimeHyperionPlease provide any recommendations. PLEASEother stuffI’ve been working on advent of code 2023 very slowly. Mostly in Typescript, a bit in Rust. My repo is here!I finished Dilla Time and was introduced to Slum Village which I highly recommend.endAlmost a year of newsletters! See you next month 🤠
