In the spirit of creating more and consuming less AND because of people like jenn schiffer, I’ve been inspired to start writing a newsletter.This will be a place for me to share things I’ve been doing lately. It will happen once a month. I want to be strict about that. And every post should be under 500 words (images not included).If you’ve received this email and don’t want to get a monthly email newsletter from me, please get out of here.More details on the impetus and mechanics below:Why a newsletter?Many people I care about aren’t on the instagram or facebook or twitterNo one visits my blog regularly (who would?!?!? i never post there!?!?!)Everyone has emailIf you don’t I’m astonished you’re hereI have relative freedom with the formatI’m not supporting a gremlin-run social media platformThe archived emails will serve as some sort of journalThis will help me get better at writing (please reply to these emails with scathing feedback whenever)What will the newsletter contain?Not sure yet. Here are a couple points:Nothing explicit or overtly rude.Under 500 words.Should be legible.Disclaimer: There is no word-count or quality minimum. I could (and probably will) write sentences that don’t make any sense. Next month’s newsletter could be just one emoji or a link to a tiktok. Who knows.How are you doing this?I will start writing posts and delivering them using Substack. To quote jenn:the unbearable inconvenience of divesting from dependence on a single platform by using a single platform as an abstraction of email protocols.BUT in the future, this newsletter and its archive will be more closely tied to kahvipatel.com and therefore independent (relatively).Can anyone subscribe?Technically yes. I’m relying on the fact that my life is probably not that interesting to prevent an open path to identity theft. Please don’t post this link on the dark web.When will the newsletter be sent?Probably somewhere around the first Sunday of each month 🤞.See you sometime next week for the first actual newsletter 🤠kahvi
